docs: refactor for self-hosted Palette DOC-465 (#1597)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/enterprise-version/install-palette/install-on-vmware/vmware-system-requirements.md

Start by reviewing the required action items below:

1. Create the two custom vSphere roles. Check out the [Create Required Roles](#create-required-roles) section to create the required roles in vSphere. 

2. Review the [vSphere Permissions](#vsphere-permissions) section to ensure the created roles have the required vSphere privileges and permissions. 

3. Create node zones and regions for your Kubernetes clusters. Refer to the [Zone Tagging](#zone-tagging) section to ensure that the required tags are created in vSphere to ensure proper resource allocation across fault domains.

:::info

The permissions listed in this page are also needed for deploying a Private Cloud Gateway (PCG), and workload cluster in vSphere through Palette.
:::

## Create Required Roles

Palette requires two custom roles to be created in vSphere before the installation. Refer to the [Create a Custom Role](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere/8.0/vsphere-security/GUID-18071E9A-EED1-4968-8D51-E0B4F526FDA3.html?hWord=N4IghgNiBcIE4HsIFMDOIC+Q) guide if you need help creating a custom role in vSphere. The required custom roles are:

> * A root-level role with access to higher-level vSphere objects. This role is referred to as the *spectro root role*. Check out to the [Root-Level Role Privileges](#root-level-role-privileges) table for the list of privileges required for the root-level role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A root-level role with access to higher-level vSphere objects. This role is referred to as the *spectro root role*. Check out the [Root-Level Role Privileges](#root-level-role-privileges) table for the list of privileges required for the root-level role.
```

* A role with the required privileges for deploying VMs. This role is referred to as the *Spectro role*. Review the [Spectro Role Privileges](#spectro-role-privileges) table for the list of privileges required for the Spectro role. 

The user account you use to deploy Palette must have access to both roles. Each vSphere object required by Palette must have a [Permission](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere/6.5/com.vmware.vsphere.security.doc/GUID-4B47F690-72E7-4861-A299-9195B9C52E71.html) entry for the respective Spectro role. The following tables list the privileges required for the each custom role. 

:::info

> For an-idepth overview of vSphere authorization and permissions overview, check out the [Understanding Authorization in vSphere](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere/8.0/vsphere-security/GUID-74F53189-EF41-4AC1-A78E-D25621855800.html) resource.

Reviewer: Is it an "in-depth" (typo: an-idepth) or an "overview"? Maybe the following is intended?

> For an-idepth overview of vSphere authorization and permissions overview, check out the [Understanding Authorization in vSphere](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere/8.0/vsphere-security/GUID-74F53189-EF41-4AC1-A78E-D25621855800.html) resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an in-depth explanation of vSphere authorization and permissions, check out the [Understanding Authorization in vSphere](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere/8.0/vsphere-security/GUID-74F53189-EF41-4AC1-A78E-D25621855800.html) resource.
```

| **Sessions**          | Validate session                            |
| **Storage views**     | View                                        |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="6.0.x" value="6.0.x">

| **vSphere Object**| **Privileges**                              |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------|
| **CNS**               | Searchable                                  |
| **Datastore**         | Browse datastore                            |
| **Host**              | Configuration<br />Storage partition configuration|
| **vSphere tagging**   | Create vSphere Tag<br />Edit vSphere Tag    |
| **Network**           | Assign network                              | 
| **Profile-driven storage** | Profile-driven storage view            |       
| **Sessions**          | Validate session                            |
| **Storage views**    | View                                        |

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

:::caution

If the network is a Distributed Port Group under a vSphere Distributed Switch (VDS), *ReadOnly* access to the VDS without “Propagate to children” is required.

:::

### Spectro Role Privileges

> The spectro role privileges listed in the following table must be applied to following vSphere objects you intended to use for the Palette install. A separate table lists Spectro role privileges for VMs by category. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

As listed in the table, apply spectro role privileges to vSphere objects you intend to use for Palette installation. A separate table lists Spectro role privileges for VMs by category. 
```

| **Datastore**         | Allocate space<br />Browse datastore<br />Low-level file operations<br />Remove file<br />Update VM files<br />Update VM metadata |
| **Folder**            | Create Folder<br />Delete folder<br />Move folder<br />Rename folder|
| **Host**              | Local operations: Reconfigure VM        |
| **Network**           | Assign network                              |
| **Resource**          | Apply recommendation<br />Assign VM to resource pool<br />Migrate powered off VM<br />Migrate powered on VM<br />Query vMotion |
| **Sessions**          | Validate sessions                           |
| **Storage policies**  | View access for VM storage policies is required.<br />Ensure ``StorageProfile.View`` is available. |
| **spectro-templates** | Read only. This is the vSphere folder created during the install. For airgap installs, you must manually create this folder.                                  |
| **Storage views**     | View                 |
| **Tasks**             | Create task<br />Update task                |
| **vApp**              | Import<br />View OVF environment<br />Configure vAPP application<br />Configure vApp instance |

> | **vSphere tagging**   | Assign or Unassign vSphere Tag<br />Create vSphere Tag<br />Delete vSphere Tag<br />Edit vSphere Tag |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **vSphere tagging**   | Assign or unassign vSphere Tag<br />Create vSphere Tag<br />Delete vSphere Tag<br />Edit vSphere Tag |
```

| **Datastore**         | Allocate space<br />Browse datastore<br />Low-level file operations<br />Remove file<br />Update VM files<br />Update VM metadata |
| **Folder**            | Create Folder<br />Delete folder<br />Move folder<br />Rename folder|
| **Host**              | Local operations: Reconfigure VM        |
| **Network**           | Assign network                              |
| **Resource**          | Apply recommendation<br />Assign VM to resource pool<br />Migrate powered off VM<br />Migrate powered on VM<br />Query vMotion |
| **Profile-driven storage** | Profile-driven storage view            |
| **Sessions**          | Validate session                            |
| **spectro-templates** | Read only. This is the vSphere folder created during the install. For airgap installs, you must manually create this folder.                                    |
| **Storage views**     | Configure service<br />View                 |
| **Tasks**             | Create task<br />Update task                |
| **vApp**              | Import<br />View OVF environment<br />Configure vAPP applications<br />Configure vApp instances |

> | **vSphere tagging**   | Assign or Unassign vSphere Tag<br />Create vSphere Tag<br />Delete vSphere Tag<br />Edit vSphere Tag |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **vSphere tagging**   | Assign or unassign vSphere Tag<br />Create vSphere Tag<br />Delete vSphere Tag<br />Edit vSphere Tag |
```

| **CNS**               | Searchable                                  |
| **Datastore**         | Allocate space<br />Browse datastore<br />Low-level file operations<br />Remove file<br />Update VM files<br />Update VM metadata |
| **Folder**            | Create Folder<br />Delete folder<br />Move folder<br />Rename folder|
| **Host**              | Local operations: Reconfigure VM            |
| **Network**           | Assign network                              |
| **Profile-driven storage** | Profile-driven storage view            |
| **Resource**          | Apply recommendation<br />Assign VM to resource pool<br />Migrate powered off VM<br />Migrate powered on VM<br />Query vMotion |
| **Sessions**          | Validate session                            |
| **spectro-templates** | Read only. This is the vSphere folder created during the install. For airgap installs, you must manually create this folder.    |
| **Storage views**     | View                                        |
| **Tasks**             | Create task<br />Update task                |
| **vApp**              | Import<br />View OVF environment<br />Configure vAPP applications<br />Configure vApp instances |

> | **vSphere tagging**   | Assign or Unassign vSphere Tag<br />Create vSphere Tag<br />Delete vSphere Tag<br />Edit vSphere Tag |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **vSphere tagging**   | Assign or unassign vSphere Tag<br />Create vSphere Tag<br />Delete vSphere Tag<br />Edit vSphere Tag |
```

> The following table lists spectro role privileges for VMs by category. All privileges are for the vSphere object, Virtual Machines.

Reviewer: The last sentence doesn't make sense to me: "All privileges are for the vSphere object, Virtual Machines."

> The following table lists spectro role privileges for VMs by category. All privileges are for the vSphere object, Virtual Machines.

Author: ```suggestion
The following table lists spectro role privileges for the vSphere object, Virtual Machine. 
```

|Guest Operations  | Alias modification<br />Alias query<br />Modify guest operations<br />Invoke programs<br />Query guest operations |
|Interaction          | Console Interaction<br />Power on/off |
|Provisioning         | Allow disk access<br />Allow file access<br />Allow read-only disk access<br />Allow VM download<br />Allow VM upload<br />Clone template<br />Clone VM<br />Create template from VM<br />Customize guest<br />Deploy template<br />Mark as template<br />Modify customization specifications<br />Promote disks<br />Read customization specifications |
|Service Configuration| Allow notifications<br />Allow polling of global event notifications<br />Manage service configurations<br />Modify service configurations<br />Query service configurations<br />Read service configurations |
| Snapshot Management  | Create snapshot<br />Remove snapshot<br />Rename snapshot<br />Revert to snapshot |
|vSphere Replication  | Configure replication<br />Manage replication<br />Monitor replication |
| vSAN  | Cluster<br />ShallowRekey |

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Zone Tagging

> You can use tags to create node zones and regions for your Kubernetes clusters. The node zones and regions can be used to dynamically place Kubernetes workloads and achiveve higher availability. Kubernetes nodes inherit the zone and region tags as [Labels](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/). Kubernetes workloads can use the node labels to ensure that the workloads are deployed to the correct zone and region.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use tags to create node zones and regions for your Kubernetes clusters. The node zones and regions can be used to dynamically place Kubernetes workloads and achieve higher availability. Kubernetes nodes inherit the zone and region tags as [Labels](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/). Kubernetes workloads can use the node labels to ensure that the workloads are deployed to the correct zone and region.
```

The following is an example of node labels that are discovered and inherited from vSphere tags. The tag values are applied to Kubernetes nodes in vSphere.

```yaml hideClipboard
  topology.kubernetes.io/region=usdc
  topology.kubernetes.io/zone=zone3
  failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/region=usdc
  failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/zone=zone3 
```

:::info

To learn more about node zones and regions, refer to the [Node Zones/Regions Topology](https://cloud-provider-vsphere.sigs.k8s.io/cloud_provider_interface.html) section of the Cloud Provider Interface documentation.

:::

Zone tagging is required to install Palette and is helpful for Kubernetes workloads deployed in vSphere clusters through Palette if they have persistent storage needs. Use vSphere tags on data centers and compute clusters to create distinct zones in your environment. You can use vSphere [Tag Categories and Tags](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere/8.0/vsphere-vcenter-esxi-management/GUID-16422FF7-235B-4A44-92E2-532F6AED0923.html) to create zones in your vSphere environment and assign them to vSphere objects.

> The zone tags you assign to your vSphere objects, such as a datacenter and clusters are applied to the Kubernetes nodes you deploy through Palette into your vSphere environment. Kubernetes clusters deployed to other infrastructure providers, such as public cloud may have other native mechanisms for auto discovery of zones.

Reviewer: We don't have "data center" on our word list and should add it. There's a mix of single-word and two-word occurrences in this section. I think we decided on two words, as it appears that way in our nav pane. Let's confirm with each other in our team meeting, and I'll add it to the word list.

> For example, assume a vCenter environment contains three compute clusters, cluster-1, cluster-2, and cluster-3. To support this environment you create the tag categories `k8s-region` and `k8s-zone`. The `k8s-region` is assigned to the data center and the `k8s-zone` tag is assigned to the compute clusters.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, assume a vCenter environment contains three compute clusters, cluster-1, cluster-2, and cluster-3. To support this environment you create the tag categories `k8s-region` and `k8s-zone`. The `k8s-region` is assigned to the datacenter, and the `k8s-zone` tag is assigned to the compute clusters.
```

> The following table lists the tag values for the data center and compute clusters.

Author: ```suggestion
The following table lists the tag values for the vSphere objects, datacenter, and compute clusters.
```
